governance.md, before:

# Main Governance Document

The official version of this document, along with a list of
individuals and institutions in the roles defined in the governance
section below, is contained in The Project Governance Repository at:

[https://github.com/opendatacube/governance](https://github.com/opendatacube/governance)

The Project
===========

The Open Data Cube Project (The Project) is an open source software project. The goal of The Project is to
develop open source software and deploy open and public websites and services
for encouraging the uptake and usage of Earth Observation data for the greater public good. The Software developed
by The Project is released under the Apache 2 (or similar) open source license,
developed openly and hosted in public GitHub repositories under the
[Open Data Cube GitHub organization](https://github.com/opendatacube). Examples of
Project Software include the Data Cube Core, the CEOS UI, other algorithms, and user interfaces, etc.
The Services run by the
Project consist of public websites and web-services that are hosted
under the opendatacube.org domain. Examples of
Project Services include the Open Data Cube and  websites
([http://opendatacube.org](http://opendatacube.org).

The Project is developed by a team of distributed developers, called
Contributors. Contributors are individuals who have contributed code,
documentation, designs or other work to one or more Project repositories.
Anyone can be a Contributor. Contributors can be affiliated with any legal
entity or none. Contributors participate in the project by submitting,
reviewing and discussing GitHub Pull Requests and Issues and participating in
open and public Project discussions on GitHub, Google+, Hackpad, Gitter chat
rooms and mailing lists. The foundation of Project participation is openness
and transparency.


There are also many other Contributors listed in the logs of other repositories of
the Open Data Cube project.

The Project Community consists of all Contributors and Users of the Project.
Contributors work on behalf of and are responsible to the larger Project
Community and we strive to keep the barrier between Contributors and Users as
low as possible.

Governance
==========

This section describes the governance and leadership model of The Project.

The foundations of Project governance are:

-   Openness & Transparency
-   Active Contribution
-   Institutional Neutrality

Steering Council
----------------

The Project will have a Steering Council that consists of Project Contributors
who have produced contributions that are substantial in quality and quantity,
and sustained over at least one year. The overall role of the Council is to
ensure, through taking input from the Community, the
long-term well-being of the project, both technically and as a community.

During the everyday project activities, council members participate in all
discussions, code review and other project activities as peers with all other
Contributors and the Community. In these everyday activities, Council Members
do not have any special power or privilege through their membership on the
Council. However, it is expected that because of the quality and quantity of
their contributions and their expert knowledge of the Project Software and
Services that Council Members will provide useful guidance, both technical and
in terms of project direction, to potentially less experienced contributors.

The Steering Council and its Members play a special role in certain situations.
In particular, the Council may:

-   Make decisions about the overall scope, vision and direction of the
    project.
-   Make decisions about strategic collaborations with other organizations or
    individuals.
-   Make decisions about specific technical issues, features, bugs and pull
    requests. They are the primary mechanism of guiding the code review process
    and merging pull requests.
-   Make decisions about the Services that are run by The Project and manage
    those Services for the benefit of the Project and Community.
-   Make decisions when regular community discussion doesn’t produce consensus
    on an issue in a reasonable time frame.

### Council membership

To become eligible for being a Steering Council Member an individual must be a
Project Contributor who has produced contributions that are substantial in
quality and quantity, and sustained over at least one year. Potential Council
Members are nominated by existing Council members and voted upon by the
existing Council after asking if the potential Member is interested and willing
to serve in that capacity. The Council will be initially formed from the set of
existing Core Developers who, as of late 2014, have been significantly active
over the last year.

When considering potential Members, the Council will look at candidates with a
comprehensive view of their contributions. This will include but is not limited
to code, code review, infrastructure work, mailing list and chat participation,
community help/building, education and outreach, design work, etc. We are
deliberately not setting arbitrary quantitative metrics (like “100 commits in
this repo”) to avoid encouraging behavior that plays to the metrics rather than
the project’s overall well-being. We want to encourage a diverse array of
backgrounds, viewpoints and talents in our team, which is why we explicitly do
not define code as the sole metric on which council membership will be
evaluated.

If a Council member becomes inactive in the project for a period of one year,
they will be considered for removal from the Council. Before removal, inactive
Member will be approached to see if they plan on returning to
active participation. If not they will be removed immediately upon a Council
vote. If they plan on returning to active participation soon, they will be
given a grace period of one year. If they don’t return to active participation
within that time period they will be removed by vote of the Council without
further grace period. All former Council members can be considered for
membership again at any time in the future, like any other Project Contributor.
 Retired Council members will be listed on the project website, acknowledging
the period during which they were active in the Council.

The Council reserves the right to eject current Members,
if they are deemed to be actively harmful to the project’s well-being, and
attempts at communication and conflict resolution have failed.

### Conflict of interest

It is expected that the Council Members will be employed at a wide
range of companies, universities and non-profit organizations. Because of this,
it is possible that Members will have conflict of interests. Such conflict of
interests include, but are not limited to:

-   Financial interests, such as investments, employment or contracting work,
    outside of The Project that may influence their work on The Project.
-   Access to proprietary information of their employer that could potentially
    leak into their work with the Project.

All members of the Council, shall disclose to the rest of the
Council any conflict of interest they may have. Members with a conflict of
interest in a particular issue may participate in Council discussions on that
issue, but must recuse themselves from voting on the issue.

### Private communications of the Council

Unless specifically required, all Council discussions and activities will be
public and done in collaboration and discussion with the Project Contributors
and Community. The Council will have a private mailing list that will be used
sparingly and only when a specific matter requires privacy. When private
communications and decisions are needed, the Council will do its best to
summarize those to the Community after eliding personal/private/sensitive
information that should not be posted to the public internet.

### Subcommittees

The Council can create subcommittees that provide leadership and guidance for
specific aspects of the project. Like the Council as a whole, subcommittees
should conduct their business in an open and public manner unless privacy is
specifically called for. Private subcommittee communications should happen on
the main private mailing list of the Council unless specifically called for.

### Licenses

The Open Data Cube project, as the name suggests, adopts licenses that reflect
our open approach. This applies both to the code in this repository but, ideally,
also to data used within Open Data Cube deployments.
Code within the Open Data Cube movement will be available via the
[Apache License Version 2](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0).
Ideally, data used in Open Data Cube deployments should use Creative Commons
Attribution 4.0 International license [CC BY 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).

Institutional Partners and Funding
==================================

The Steering Council are the primary leadership for the project. No
outside institution, individual or legal entity has the ability to own,
control, usurp or influence the project other than by participating in the
Project as Contributors and Council Members. However, because institutions are
the primary funding mechanism for the project, it is important to formally
acknowledge institutional participation in the project. These are Institutional
Partners.

An Institutional Contributor is any individual Project Contributor who
contributes to the project as part of their official duties at an Institutional
Partner. Likewise, an Institutional Council Member is any Project Steering
Council Member who contributes to the project as part of their official duties
at an Institutional Partner.

With these definitions, an Institutional Partner is any recognized legal entity
in the United States or elsewhere that employs at least one Institutional
Contributor or Institutional Council Member. Institutional Partners can be
for-profit or non-profit entities.

Institutions become eligible to become an Institutional Partner by
employing individuals who actively contribute to The Project as part
of their official duties. To state this another way, the only way for
an Institutional Partner to influence the project is by actively
contributing to the open development of the project, on equal terms
with any other member of the community of Contributors and Council
Members. Merely using Open Data Cube Software or Services in an
institutional context does not allow an entity to become an
Institutional Partner. Financial gifts do not enable an entity to
become an Institutional Partner. Once an institution becomes eligible
for Institutional Partnership, the Steering Council must nominate and
approve the Partnership.

If an existing Institutional Partner no longer has a contributing employee,
they will be given a one-year grace period for other employees to begin
contributing.

An Institutional Partner is free to pursue funding for their work on The
Project through any legal means. This could involve a non-profit organization
raising money from private foundations and donors or a for-profit company
building proprietary products and services that leverage Project Software and
Services. Funding acquired by Institutional Partners to work on The Project is
called Institutional Funding. However, no funding obtained by an Institutional
Partner can override The Steering Council. If a Partner has
funding to do Open Data Cube work and the Council decides to not pursue that
work as a project, the Partner is free to pursue it on their own. However in
this situation, that part of the Partner’s work will not be under the
Open Data Cube umbrella and cannot use the Project trademarks in a way that
suggests a formal relationship.

To acknowledge institutional contributions, there are two level of Institutional
Partners, with associated benefits:

**Tier 1** = an institution with at least one Institutional Council Member

-   Acknowledged on the Open Data Cube websites, in talks and T-shirts.
-   Ability to acknowledge their own funding sources on the Open Data Cube
    websites, in talks and T-shirts.
-   Unlimited participation in the annual Institutional Partners Workshop, held
    during the (planned) annual Open Data Cube Project Retreat. This allows the
    Institutional Partner to invite as many of their own employees and funding
    sources and collaborators as they want, even if they are not project
    Contributors or Council Members.
-   Ability to influence the project through the participation of their Council
    Member.
-   Council Members are invited to the bi-annual Open Data Cube Developer Meeting.

**Tier 2** = an institution with at least one Institutional Contributor

-   Same benefits as Tier 1 level Partners, but:
-   Only Institutional Contributors are invited to the Institutional Partners
    Workshop and bi-annual Open Data Cube Developer Meeting.


Changing the Governance Documents
=================================

Changes to the governance documents are submitted via a GitHub pull
request to The Project's governance documents GitHub repository at
[https://github.com/opendatacube/governance](https://github.com/opendatacube/governance).
The pull request is then refined in response to public comment and
review, with the goal being consensus in the community.  After this
open period, a Steering Council Member proposes to the Steering
Council that the changes be ratified and the pull request merged
(accepting the proposed changes) or proposes that the pull request be
closed without merging (rejecting the proposed changes).  The Member
should state the final commit hash in the pull request being proposed
for acceptance or rejection and briefly summarize the pull request. A
minimum of 80% of the Steering Council must vote and at least 2/3 of
the votes must be positive to carry out the proposed action (fractions
of a vote rounded up to the nearest integer).

Commit message:

Clarify licenses area
CC-BY is our recommended open data licence

governance.md, after:

# Main Governance Document

The official version of this document, along with a list of
individuals and institutions in the roles defined in the governance
section below, is contained in The Project Governance Repository at:

[https://github.com/opendatacube/governance](https://github.com/opendatacube/governance)

The Project
===========

The Open Data Cube Project (The Project) is an open source software project. The goal of The Project is to
develop open source software and deploy open and public websites and services
for encouraging the uptake and usage of Earth Observation data for the greater public good. The Software developed
by The Project is released under the Apache 2 (or similar) open source license,
developed openly and hosted in public GitHub repositories under the
[Open Data Cube GitHub organization](https://github.com/opendatacube). Examples of
Project Software include the Data Cube Core, the CEOS UI, other algorithms, and user interfaces, etc.
The Services run by the
Project consist of public websites and web-services that are hosted
under the opendatacube.org domain. Examples of
Project Services include the Open Data Cube and  websites
([http://opendatacube.org](http://opendatacube.org).

The Project is developed by a team of distributed developers, called
Contributors. Contributors are individuals who have contributed code,
documentation, designs or other work to one or more Project repositories.
Anyone can be a Contributor. Contributors can be affiliated with any legal
entity or none. Contributors participate in the project by submitting,
reviewing and discussing GitHub Pull Requests and Issues and participating in
open and public Project discussions on GitHub, Google+, Hackpad, Gitter chat
rooms and mailing lists. The foundation of Project participation is openness
and transparency.


There are also many other Contributors listed in the logs of other repositories of
the Open Data Cube project.

The Project Community consists of all Contributors and Users of the Project.
Contributors work on behalf of and are responsible to the larger Project
Community and we strive to keep the barrier between Contributors and Users as
low as possible.

Governance
==========

This section describes the governance and leadership model of The Project.

The foundations of Project governance are:

-   Openness & Transparency
-   Active Contribution
-   Institutional Neutrality

Steering Council
----------------

The Project will have a Steering Council that consists of Project Contributors
who have produced contributions that are substantial in quality and quantity,
and sustained over at least one year. The overall role of the Council is to
ensure, through taking input from the Community, the
long-term well-being of the project, both technically and as a community.

During the everyday project activities, council members participate in all
discussions, code review and other project activities as peers with all other
Contributors and the Community. In these everyday activities, Council Members
do not have any special power or privilege through their membership on the
Council. However, it is expected that because of the quality and quantity of
their contributions and their expert knowledge of the Project Software and
Services that Council Members will provide useful guidance, both technical and
in terms of project direction, to potentially less experienced contributors.

The Steering Council and its Members play a special role in certain situations.
In particular, the Council may:

-   Make decisions about the overall scope, vision and direction of the
    project.
-   Make decisions about strategic collaborations with other organizations or
    individuals.
-   Make decisions about specific technical issues, features, bugs and pull
    requests. They are the primary mechanism of guiding the code review process
    and merging pull requests.
-   Make decisions about the Services that are run by The Project and manage
    those Services for the benefit of the Project and Community.
-   Make decisions when regular community discussion doesn’t produce consensus
    on an issue in a reasonable time frame.

### Council membership

To become eligible for being a Steering Council Member an individual must be a
Project Contributor who has produced contributions that are substantial in
quality and quantity, and sustained over at least one year. Potential Council
Members are nominated by existing Council members and voted upon by the
existing Council after asking if the potential Member is interested and willing
to serve in that capacity. The Council will be initially formed from the set of
existing Core Developers who, as of late 2014, have been significantly active
over the last year.

When considering potential Members, the Council will look at candidates with a
comprehensive view of their contributions. This will include but is not limited
to code, code review, infrastructure work, mailing list and chat participation,
community help/building, education and outreach, design work, etc. We are
deliberately not setting arbitrary quantitative metrics (like “100 commits in
this repo”) to avoid encouraging behavior that plays to the metrics rather than
the project’s overall well-being. We want to encourage a diverse array of
backgrounds, viewpoints and talents in our team, which is why we explicitly do
not define code as the sole metric on which council membership will be
evaluated.

If a Council member becomes inactive in the project for a period of one year,
they will be considered for removal from the Council. Before removal, inactive
Member will be approached to see if they plan on returning to
active participation. If not they will be removed immediately upon a Council
vote. If they plan on returning to active participation soon, they will be
given a grace period of one year. If they don’t return to active participation
within that time period they will be removed by vote of the Council without
further grace period. All former Council members can be considered for
membership again at any time in the future, like any other Project Contributor.
 Retired Council members will be listed on the project website, acknowledging
the period during which they were active in the Council.

The Council reserves the right to eject current Members,
if they are deemed to be actively harmful to the project’s well-being, and
attempts at communication and conflict resolution have failed.

### Conflict of interest

It is expected that the Council Members will be employed at a wide
range of companies, universities and non-profit organizations. Because of this,
it is possible that Members will have conflict of interests. Such conflict of
interests include, but are not limited to:

-   Financial interests, such as investments, employment or contracting work,
    outside of The Project that may influence their work on The Project.
-   Access to proprietary information of their employer that could potentially
    leak into their work with the Project.

All members of the Council, shall disclose to the rest of the
Council any conflict of interest they may have. Members with a conflict of
interest in a particular issue may participate in Council discussions on that
issue, but must recuse themselves from voting on the issue.

### Private communications of the Council

Unless specifically required, all Council discussions and activities will be
public and done in collaboration and discussion with the Project Contributors
and Community. The Council will have a private mailing list that will be used
sparingly and only when a specific matter requires privacy. When private
communications and decisions are needed, the Council will do its best to
summarize those to the Community after eliding personal/private/sensitive
information that should not be posted to the public internet.

### Subcommittees

The Council can create subcommittees that provide leadership and guidance for
specific aspects of the project. Like the Council as a whole, subcommittees
should conduct their business in an open and public manner unless privacy is
specifically called for. Private subcommittee communications should happen on
the main private mailing list of the Council unless specifically called for.

### Licenses

The Open Data Cube project, as the name suggests, adopts licenses that reflect
our open approach. This applies both to the code in this repository but, ideally,
also to data used within Open Data Cube deployments.

Code within the Open Data Cube repository will be available via the
[Apache License Version 2](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0).

Open  Data Cube deployments should clearly identify the useage conditions under which data can be used. The recommended open data licence is the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International license [CC BY 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/). Licenses for commercial data will be vary.

Institutional Partners and Funding
==================================

The Steering Council are the primary leadership for the project. No
outside institution, individual or legal entity has the ability to own,
control, usurp or influence the project other than by participating in the
Project as Contributors and Council Members. However, because institutions are
the primary funding mechanism for the project, it is important to formally
acknowledge institutional participation in the project. These are Institutional
Partners.

An Institutional Contributor is any individual Project Contributor who
contributes to the project as part of their official duties at an Institutional
Partner. Likewise, an Institutional Council Member is any Project Steering
Council Member who contributes to the project as part of their official duties
at an Institutional Partner.

With these definitions, an Institutional Partner is any recognized legal entity
in the United States or elsewhere that employs at least one Institutional
Contributor or Institutional Council Member. Institutional Partners can be
for-profit or non-profit entities.

Institutions become eligible to become an Institutional Partner by
employing individuals who actively contribute to The Project as part
of their official duties. To state this another way, the only way for
an Institutional Partner to influence the project is by actively
contributing to the open development of the project, on equal terms
with any other member of the community of Contributors and Council
Members. Merely using Open Data Cube Software or Services in an
institutional context does not allow an entity to become an
Institutional Partner. Financial gifts do not enable an entity to
become an Institutional Partner. Once an institution becomes eligible
for Institutional Partnership, the Steering Council must nominate and
approve the Partnership.

If an existing Institutional Partner no longer has a contributing employee,
they will be given a one-year grace period for other employees to begin
contributing.

An Institutional Partner is free to pursue funding for their work on The
Project through any legal means. This could involve a non-profit organization
raising money from private foundations and donors or a for-profit company
building proprietary products and services that leverage Project Software and
Services. Funding acquired by Institutional Partners to work on The Project is
called Institutional Funding. However, no funding obtained by an Institutional
Partner can override The Steering Council. If a Partner has
funding to do Open Data Cube work and the Council decides to not pursue that
work as a project, the Partner is free to pursue it on their own. However in
this situation, that part of the Partner’s work will not be under the
Open Data Cube umbrella and cannot use the Project trademarks in a way that
suggests a formal relationship.

To acknowledge institutional contributions, there are two level of Institutional
Partners, with associated benefits:

**Tier 1** = an institution with at least one Institutional Council Member

-   Acknowledged on the Open Data Cube websites, in talks and T-shirts.
-   Ability to acknowledge their own funding sources on the Open Data Cube
    websites, in talks and T-shirts.
-   Unlimited participation in the annual Institutional Partners Workshop, held
    during the (planned) annual Open Data Cube Project Retreat. This allows the
    Institutional Partner to invite as many of their own employees and funding
    sources and collaborators as they want, even if they are not project
    Contributors or Council Members.
-   Ability to influence the project through the participation of their Council
    Member.
-   Council Members are invited to the bi-annual Open Data Cube Developer Meeting.

**Tier 2** = an institution with at least one Institutional Contributor

-   Same benefits as Tier 1 level Partners, but:
-   Only Institutional Contributors are invited to the Institutional Partners
    Workshop and bi-annual Open Data Cube Developer Meeting.


Changing the Governance Documents
=================================

Changes to the governance documents are submitted via a GitHub pull
request to The Project's governance documents GitHub repository at
[https://github.com/opendatacube/governance](https://github.com/opendatacube/governance).
The pull request is then refined in response to public comment and
review, with the goal being consensus in the community.  After this
open period, a Steering Council Member proposes to the Steering
Council that the changes be ratified and the pull request merged
(accepting the proposed changes) or proposes that the pull request be
closed without merging (rejecting the proposed changes).  The Member
should state the final commit hash in the pull request being proposed
for acceptance or rejection and briefly summarize the pull request. A
minimum of 80% of the Steering Council must vote and at least 2/3 of
the votes must be positive to carry out the proposed action (fractions
of a vote rounded up to the nearest integer).
