people.md, before:

# Steering Council and Institutional Partners

Names are followed by GitHub usernames.

## Steering Council

- Trevor Dhu, @tdhu
- Simon Oliver, @simonaoliver
- Rob Woodcock, @woodcockr
- Brian Killough,
- Damien Ayers, @omad
- Sanjay Gowda, @sgowda1
- Andrew Cherry, @AMA-AC

## Institutional Partners

### Tier 1

Institutional Council members are noted with each institution.

- [Geoscience Australia](http://www.ga.gov.au/) (Trevor Dhu, Simon Oliver, Damien Ayers)
- [CSIRO](https://www.csiro.au/) (Rob Woodcock, Matt Paget)
- [NASA](https://www.nasa.gov/) (Brian Killough)
- [AMA](http://www.ama-inc.com/) (Andrew Cherry, Sanjay Gowda)
- [IDEAM](http://www.ideam.gov.co/)


## New Steering Council Members

When a new member joins the steering council, the following things are done:
- Announce the new member on the Open Data Cube mailing list
- Make the new member an org owner and Open Data Cube Github organizations
- Add the new member to the list in the governance repo, and if appropriate, add their affiliation to the institutional partner list (https://github.com/opendatacube/governance/blob/master/people.md)
- Add the new member to the list of steering council members on the website (https://github.com/opendatacube/opendatacube.github.io/blob/master/about.html)

Commit message:

Removed names Institutions (redundant information and tidy up New Council section
The repeating of names seemed an unnecessary burden, also corrected an inconsistency in the name list.
Not sure the Administration tasks need to be here but I have linked across to the New Council member process in the main Governance document.

people.md, after:

# Steering Council and Institutional Partners

Names are followed by GitHub usernames.

## Steering Council

- Trevor Dhu, @tdhu
- Simon Oliver, @simonaoliver
- Rob Woodcock, @woodcockr
- Brian Killough,
- Damien Ayers, @omad
- Sanjay Gowda, @sgowda1
- Andrew Cherry, @AMA-AC

## Institutional Partners

### Tier 1

Institutional Council members are noted with each institution.

- [Geoscience Australia](http://www.ga.gov.au/)
- [CSIRO](https://www.csiro.au/)
- [NASA](https://www.nasa.gov/)
- [AMA](http://www.ama-inc.com/)
- [IDEAM](http://www.ideam.gov.co/)


## New Steering Council Members
The process for becoming a Steering Council Member is documented in the [Governance document](https://github.com/opendatacube/governance/blob/master/governance.md#council-membership) 

The following tasks need to be completed when a new member joins the steering council:
- Announce the new member on the Open Data Cube mailing list
- Make the new member an org owner and Open Data Cube Github organizations
- Add the new member to the list in the governance repo, and if appropriate, add their affiliation to the institutional partner list (https://github.com/opendatacube/governance/blob/master/people.md)
- Add the new member to the list of steering council members on the website (https://github.com/opendatacube/opendatacube.github.io/blob/master/about.html)
