subcommittees.md, before:

# Open Data Cube Subcommittee 
The Council can create subcommittees that provide leadership and guidance for specific aspects of the project. Like the Council as a whole, subcommittees should conduct their business in an open and public manner unless privacy is specifically called for. Private subcommittee communications should happen on the main private mailing list of the Council unless specifically called for.
## Community Engagement Subcommittee (CES)

### Description:
The Community Engagement Subcommittee is a voluntary group that focuses on broad discussion and implementation of community engagement activities and reports directly to the ODC Steering Council. These areas include general networking, opportunities for growing connections within the community, and an provide open forum for new ideas and suggestions to bolster the Open Data Cube and those who support it. Some specific activities include supporting ODC website updates, community communication platforms, community events, etc. 

Please reach out to current chair(s) for more information or to request a link for participating in our Monthly meetings that typically happen the last Thursday of each month at 7pm (UTC -4), 10am (UTC +11).

### Current Chairs of CES as of November 2023:
Josh Baptist - joshua.r.baptist(at)ama-inc.com

Oguz Yetkin - oguz.yetkin(at)ama-inc.com

## ODC Documentation Subcommittee Group:
Chair: Syed Rizvi -- Syed.Rizvi(at)ama-inc.com

Commit message:

Further updates and revisions to subcommittees.md
Added ODC Documentation Subcommittee

subcommittees.md, after:

# Open Data Cube Subcommittee 
The Council can create subcommittees that provide leadership and guidance for specific aspects of the project. Like the Council as a whole, subcommittees should conduct their business in an open and public manner unless privacy is specifically called for. Private subcommittee communications should happen on the main private mailing list of the Council unless specifically called for.
## Community Engagement Subcommittee (CES)

### Description:
The Community Engagement Subcommittee is a voluntary group that focuses on broad discussion and implementation of community engagement activities and reports directly to the ODC Steering Council. These areas include general networking, opportunities for growing connections within the community, and an provide open forum for new ideas and suggestions to bolster the Open Data Cube and those who support it. Some specific activities include supporting ODC website updates, community communication platforms, community events, etc. 

Please reach out to current chair(s) for more information or to request a link for participating in our Monthly meetings that typically happen the last Thursday of each month at 7pm (UTC -4), 10am (UTC +11).

### Current Chair(s) of CES as of November 2023:
Josh Baptist - joshua.r.baptist(at)ama-inc.com

Oguz Yetkin - oguz.yetkin(at)ama-inc.com

## ODC Documentation Subcommittee Group:

### Description:
 
The Documentation Subcommittee is responsible for maintaining and improving the technical documentation and website of the ODC framework. The group aims to provide clear, accurate, and up-to-date information on how to use and contribute to ODC.
 
Please reach out to the current chair(s) for more information or to request a link for participating in our Monthly meetings that typically happen the last Monday of each month at 6pm (UTC -4),  9am (UTC +11).

### Current Chair(s) of DS as of November 2023:
Syed Rizvi -- Syed.Rizvi(at)ama-inc.com
